# React UI Elements(or Components)

## Terminologies

- **UI Elements**: A general term for reusable, functional pieces of the UI(e.g., buttons, tables, icons).

> From more fine-grain there are Web UI Components and Mobile UI Components, for now we only focus on Web UI Components.

- **UI Kit** or **Component Library**: A collection of pre-built UI components that are ready to use. **Ant Design** is
  an example of a web-based **UI Kit**.

- **Component Library** vs **UI Framework**:

  **Component Library**

  > A set of UI components that we can use to build our interface. Ant Design is a component library for React.

  **UI Framework**

  > A broader term that includes UI components but also design guidelines, best practices, and patterns. Ant Design can
  be considered both UI Framework and a component library.

- **React UI Elements**: The specific implementations for React applications that we can install via `npm`(like Ant
  Design, Material UI, etc.).

--- 

## Common React UI Elements(or Components)

- **Buttons**
- **Input Fields**
- **Checkboxes/Radio Buttons**
- **Tables**
- **Card**
- **Dropdowns/Selects**
- **Dialogs/Modals**
- **Navigation Bars(Menus)**
- **Grids/Layouts**
- **Icons**

### Relationships between Native React Components and Common UI Elements

React UI Elements, such as those provided by libraries like Ant Design, are enhanced versions of native HTML elements(
e.g., `<button>`)
that offer additional **styling**, **functionality**, and **customization options**. These enhancements help create a
consistent look and feel
across the application, adhering to design principles like those in the Ant Design framework.
By leveraging these React UI Elements, developers can streamline the process of building responsive and aesthetically
pleasing UIs,
while maintaining consistency in behavior and appearance throughout the application.
---

## Commonly Used React UI Components/Elements Libraries

- [Ant Design]()
- [Material UI (MuI)]()
- [React Bootstrap]()
- [Chakra UI]()
- [Tailwind UI]()

--- 

## Common Steps for Our React Native Projects Adopt React UI Components

### React UI Elements

**Definition**: React UI Elements are the specific implementation of UI components for React applications that we can
install via `npm`. These are libraries like **Ant Design**, **Material UI**, **React Bootstrap**, etc., that provide
pre-designed and reusable UI components(e.g., buttons, tables, forms).

### Why Install npm and Import CSS Manually for Libraries like Ant Design ?

In a React project, when we want to use a UI library like Ant Design, we need to perform two main steps:

#### Install the npm packages:

* Running `npm install antd` installs the **JavaScript logic** for the components(e.g., buttons, tables, forms) provided
  by the library.
* This step adds the **functionality** of Ant Design's React components but does not include their **CSS styling**.

#### Import the CSS styles:

* The npm package provides the necessary functionality and logic for components, but the actual **styling** (such as
  colors, layout, fonts, etc.) is stored in separate CSS files within the npm install download packages.
* **Why import CSS manually??** The CSS needs to be applied to the components to give them their intended look and feel(
  i.e., the design system of Ant Design). 
* To ensure that these styles are applied, we must explicitly import the CSS into our project's `index.js` or `App.js` file. 
```javascript
import 'antd/dist/antd.css'; 
```
This step is required to make sure our components are rendered correctly with proper styling. 

#### Summary 
* **npm install**: Brings in the **component logic** for enhanced UI components. 
* **CSS import**: Ensures that the components are styled according to the **design system** of the library(e.g., Ant Design).
* Missing either of those two steps, we will have the functionality of the components but won't see the intended styling.




