# Elastic Beanstalk Overview 
* Elastic Beanstalk is a fully managed service from AWS that allows developers to deploy and manage applications in various programming languages(e.g., Java, Node.js, Python, Docker, etc.) without worrying about the infrastructure. 
* It automatically handles the deployment, scaling, load balancing, and monitoring of applications running in an AWS environments. 
* Beanstalk manages the resource necessary for running applications like EC2 instances, database, load balancers, and auto-scaling configurations. 

## Key Concepts 
### 1. Solution Stack (Stack)
- **Solution Stack**: in Elastic Beanstalk defines the operating system(OS) and the application platform (e.g., java, Node.js, Docker) that our application will run on. 
- It is predefined configuration template that includes the OS, software environment, and running necessary for your application. 
- Examples of Solution Stack: 
```shell 
64bit Amazon Linux 2 v4.0.5 running Docker
64bit Amazon Linux 2 v3.7.9 running Corretto 8
64bit Amazon Linux 2 v5.9.9 running Node.js 18
```

- When we choose a Solution Stack, Elastic Beanstalk automatically selects a compatible AMI to launch EC2 instances with the chosen runtime and environment. 

### 2. Amazon Machine Image (AMI)
* AMI is an image used to launch EC2 instances in AWS. It includes the operating system, configurations, and installed software necessary to run applications. 
* In Elastic Beanstalk, when we select a **Solution Stack**, it is internally tied to an AMI. The AMI that Elastic Beanstalk uses depends on the Solution Stack you've chosen.

### 3. Elastic Beanstalk Environment
- An **Elastic Beanstalk environment** is a running instance of our application. It contains of AWS resources like EC2 instances, a load balancer, security groups, etc., that are created and managed by Elastic Beanstalk. 
- We can configure environment settings such as
  - Instance types
  - Auto-scaling policies 
  - Environment variables 
  - Security groups 
  - Key pairs for SSH access 

## Summary 
* **Solution Stack** defines the environment (OS + runtime) that our application will run on. 
* **AMI** is the underlying image used to create EC2 instances, which is automatically selected when we choose a Solution Stack. 
* Elastic Beanstalk simplifies deployment and management by handling the underlying infrastructure, allowing you to focus on the application itself. 